IMF chief Christine Lagarde has called for countries to "act now and act together" to keep on the path to economic recovery.

"We are by no means strangers, and we are linked by a common destiny," she said at the annual meeting of the IMF and the World Bank in Washington.

"And these turbulent times must bind us ever closer together."

Ms Lagarde was speaking after another week of volatility on the world's share markets.

In Europe, the main share indexes in London, Paris and Frankfurt all fell about 4% over the week.

Meanwhile, UK Chancellor George Osborne warned time was running out to tackle the eurozone debt crisis.

Speaking in Washington, where the G20 is also gathering, Mr Osborne said European leaders had six weeks to end the crisis.
'Dark clouds'

Ms Lagarde said: "There is a path to recovery. It's narrower than it was three years ago but there is a path and we have options."

But she added: "There are dark clouds over Europe and there is huge uncertainty in the US. And with that we could risk a collapse in global demand.

"Well, so what? Let's remove the clouds and remove the uncertainty. Easier said than done, and it requires clearly a collective action.

"We are all in it together and nobody should be under any illusion that there could be a de-coupling."

Global shares had slumped on Thursday, sparked by a Federal Reserve warning late the previous day about the outlook for the US economy.

And on Friday, Greece denied media reports it was contemplating defaulting on its debts, with creditors taking a 50% hit on Greek government bonds.

Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said Athens was focusing on reducing its debt levels.

"All other discussions, rumours, comments and scenarios which are diverting our attention from this central target and Greece's political obligation... do not help our common European task," he said.

Also on Friday, credit rating agency Moody's downgraded eight Greek banks due to concerns about Greece's ability to pay back its debts.

Two of the Greek banks downgraded, the Emporiki Bank of Greece and General Bank of Greece, are majority-owned by France's Credit Agricole and Societe Generale respectively.

Unimpressed

Thursday's market falls had sparked the G20 to announce a commitment "to take all necessary actions to preserve the stability of banking systems and financial markets as required".